
# this is the first version
This project is to turn a Raspberry PI as an audio device.The
device is able to do 2 functions: as a sound collector and as a
test-tone generator.

Table of Content:
        1.Configuration Instructions
        2.Installation Instructions
        3.Operating Instructions
        4.File list (Manifest)
        5.Copyright / Copyleft
        6.Contact Information
        7.Credits and Acknowledgements

---1.Configuration Instructions

        The application is running on a Raspberry Pi 3 model B.This Pi should come with a USB sound card, a network connection, a microphone.

        1.1 16gb Micro sd card has instaled Raspbian operating system..

        1.2 USB audio card configurates as default audio device for Raspberry Pi onboard
            The sound Card does not have a microphone interface. Then, you check if the USB is mounted or not.
            After configuring and setting it, run  "Alsamixer " and you will be able to hear the sound
            Via USB sound card.

        1.3 Installing library Libcurl because that is a reliable and portable library providing an easy interface
            to a range of common Internet protocols as well as that is considered as
            the most often used C-based multi-platform file transfer library.

---2.Installation Instructions

        *  Download Raspbian OS from  this website :https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/ and install it
           then download "Noobs" image and remember to download ZIP file.

        * For the first time boot, plug in your keyboard, mouse and monitor cable. Then, you disable a display with RPi
          because it will be more convinient and you don't use it in most cases. Furthermore, you also need to know its IP address
          when using RPi remotely. For more information about NOOBS setup, you can find at: https://www.raspberrypi.org/help/noobs-setup/2/

        * Disassemble keyboard, mouse and monitor cable and plug them back in your computer.Then, insert USB sound card and microphone
          to the Raspberry Pi and connect RPi to a Internet domain by the RJ45 cable. After that, connect to power supply by Micro USB to USB cable.

        *Using IP address sent by email to connect to the terminal.

3.Operating Instructions

        *Open the PUTTY terminal and logging in your IP address you recieved. So you "login as:" pi and enter your password.
        *Get access to "appdev" folder by "cd appdev/" command. In "appdev", enter "cd appdev1/" command to access to appdev1 folder where all
        the source code files are put in.
        *There are many useful commands you need to know to easily get access to those file:
                +"mkdir": Make a new folder
                + "ls -l": show the files of current folder in details
                +"cd..": Change to parent folder
                +"cd $HOME": Change to the root folder of current user
                +"rm": Delete a file or a number of files/folders
                +"scp": Copy files from one host to another host
                For more information, you can find at: http://www.circuitbasics.com/useful-raspberry-pi-commands/
                *Compilling program by typing "make" command
        *Run program by typing "./sound.out" command
        *Using the microphone to sense the movement and the variation of the sound movement and find how many peaks the audio
device reaches.

4.File list (Manifest)
----------------------
This project includes following files:
        +README.txt:
                -This file contains information about other files in a directory or archive of computer software.
        +makefile:
                -This file is used to make file for program to run and other methods such as clean files or make .tar file
        +screen.c
                -This file contains functions about screen control and movement and bar chart display as well as clear screen
                function.
        +screen.h
                -This is the header of screen.c and includes library, declaration and defination of constants and variables.
        +sound.c
                -This file contains functions to sense sound through microphone and calculation for dB as well as find number of peaks in  .wav file
        +sound.h
                -This is the header file of sound.c and includes library, declaration and defination of constants and variables.
        +comm.c
                -This file includes functions to send data to calculate 1 second of sound samples into 8-pieces of slow decibel(ISO standard) and use
                libcurl to send data to server.
        +comm.h
                -This is the header file for comm.c
        +main.c
                -This file is the operating file which call all other functions and execute in a typical order.
        +curltest.c
 -This file is used to transfer data from or to a server, using common Internet protocol.
        +sound.php
                -This file is kept in the server so that the server can receive the RMS values.

5.Copyleft
----------

        This project is cooperated with an instructor: Mr.Gao Chao from Vaasa University of Applied Sciences.
        I use Raspberry Pi 3 model B which is a device of Vaasa University of Applied Sciences.
        All the source code files are free to use and distribute!

6.Contact Information
---------------------
        Pham Hau, Departure of Information Technology
        Vaasa University of Applied Sciences
        Vuorikatu 14 B70, 65100 Vaasa, Finland.
        If you have any questions about this project, please feel free to contact me through my email: nhannguyen290520@gmail.com

7.Credits and Acknowledgements
-------------------------------
        After finishing this project which is considered as my first project and with the support from Mr. Gao Chao, I have learned a lot
about the format as well as concepts development for a project.
